CTOR-374-mosquitto-mqtt-broker (#3367)
centreon/centreon-documentation: pp/integrations/plugin-packs/procedures/applications-eclipse-mosquitto-mqtt.md

---
id: applications-eclipse-mosquitto-mqtt
title: Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** brings a host template:

* **App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom" label="App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                           | Service Description                                  |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|

> | Clients       | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Clients-custom  | Check connected clients count                        |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Clients       | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Clients-custom  | Check the number of connected clients |
```

> | Messages      | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Messages-custom | Check messages count, open                           |

Reviewer: pas la même chose EN et FR : "open"?

| Uptime        | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Uptime-custom   | Time since the server has been working and available |

> The services listed above are created automatically when the **App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom** host template is used.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias | Service Template                                | Service Description                                     |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|

> | Numeric-Value | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Numeric-Value-custom | Check allowing to retrieve a digital value from a topic |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Numeric-Value | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Numeric-Value-custom | Check that retrieves a digital value from a topic |
```

> | String-Value  | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-String-Value-custom  | Check allowing to retrieve a string value from a topic  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| String-Value  | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-String-Value-custom  | Check that retrieves a string value from a topic  |
```

> The services listed above are not created automatically when a host template is applied. To use them, [create a service manually](/docs/monitoring/basic-objects/services), then apply the service template you want.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Collected metrics & status

Here is the list of services for this connector, detailing all metrics linked to each service.

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Clients" label="Clients">

> Coming soon

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| messages.stored| count     |
| messages.received| count     |
| messages.sent| count     |
```

> Coming soon

Reviewer: coming soon

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Messages" label="Messages">

> Coming soon

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| messages.stored| count     |
| messages.received| count     |
| messages.sent| count     |
```

> Coming soon

Reviewer: coming soon

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Numeric-Value" label="Numeric-Value">

> | Metric name | Unit  |
> |:------------|:------|
> | generic     | N/A   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The obtained metrics depend fully on the configuration.
```

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="String-Value" label="String-Value">

> | Metric name | Unit  |
> |:------------|:------|
> | generic     | N/A   |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
No metrics for this service.
```

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| system.uptime.seconds | s     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

> *Specify prerequisites that are relevant. You may want to just provide a link\n\

Reviewer: prerequisites

to the manufacturer official documentation BUT you should try to be as complete\n\
as possible here as it will save time to everybody.*

## Installing the monitoring connector

### Pack

1. If the platform uses an *online* license, you can skip the package installation
instruction below as it is not required to have the connector displayed within the
**Configuration > Monitoring Connector Manager** menu.
If the platform uses an *offline* license, install the package on the **central server**
with the command corresponding to the operating system's package manager:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```bash
dnf install centreon-pack-applications-eclipse-mosquitto-mqtt
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```bash
dnf install centreon-pack-applications-eclipse-mosquitto-mqtt
```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="Debian 11 & 12" label="Debian 11 & 12">
```

```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

2. Whatever the license type (*online* or *offline*), install the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** connector through
the **Configuration > Monitoring Connector Manager** menu.

### Plugin

Since Centreon 22.04, you can benefit from the 'Automatic plugin installation' feature.
When this feature is enabled, you can skip the installation part below.

You still have to manually install the plugin on the poller(s) when:
- Automatic plugin installation is turned off
- You want to run a discovery job from a poller that doesn't monitor any resource of this kind yet

> More information in the [Installing the plugin](/docs/monitoring/pluginpacks/#installing-the-plugin) section.

Use the commands below according to your operating system's package manager:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```bash
dnf install centreon-plugin-Applications-Eclipse-Mosquitto-MQTT
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```bash
dnf install centreon-plugin-Applications-Eclipse-Mosquitto-MQTT
```

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="Debian 11" label="Debian 11">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="Debian 11 & 12" label="Debian 11 & 12">
```

---
id: applications-eclipse-mosquitto-mqtt
title: Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

## Pack assets

### Templates

The Monitoring Connector **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** brings a host template:

* **App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom**

The connector brings the following service templates (sorted by the host template they are attached to):

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom" label="App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-custom">

| Service Alias | Service Template                           | Service Description                                  |
|:--------------|:-------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------|
| Clients       | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Clients-custom  | Check the number of connected clients |

> | Messages      | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Messages-custom | Check messages count, open                           |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| Messages      | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Messages-custom | Check messages statistics                           |
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Not attached to a host template" label="Not attached to a host template">

| Service Alias | Service Template                                | Service Description                                     |
|:--------------|:------------------------------------------------|:--------------------------------------------------------|
| Numeric-Value | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-Numeric-Value-custom | Check that retrieves a digital value from a topic |
| String-Value  | App-Eclipse-Mosquitto-Mqtt-String-Value-custom  | Check that retrieves a string value from a topic  |

> The services listed above are not created automatically when a host template is applied. To use them, [create a service manually](/docs/monitoring/basic-objects/services), then apply the service template you want.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Collected metrics & status

Here is the list of services for this connector, detailing all metrics linked to each service.

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Clients" label="Clients">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|

> | messages.stored | count     |
> | messages.received | count     |
> | messages.sent | count     |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| client.connected | count     |
| client.maximum | count     |
| client.active | count     |
| client.inactive | count     |
```

| client.connected | count     |
| client.maximum | count     |
| client.active | count     |
| client.inactive | count     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Messages" label="Messages">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| messages.stored | count     |
| messages.received | count     |
| messages.sent | count     |

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Numeric-Value" label="Numeric-Value">

The obtained metrics depend fully on the configuration.

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="String-Value" label="String-Value">

No metrics for this service.

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Uptime" label="Uptime">

| Metric name           | Unit  |
|:----------------------|:------|
| system.uptime.seconds | s     |

> To obtain this new metric format, include **--use-new-perfdata** in the **EXTRAOPTIONS** service macro.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Prerequisites

The **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** monitoring connector needs network access to the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** instance.

> If the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** server is configured to use SSL, make sure the connector is able to validate the server's certificate.
> If the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** server is configured to use authentication, make sure the connector is able to authenticate.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** server is configured to use SSL, make sure the server's certificate is recognized by the poller, or that the certification authority's certificate is present on it. Otherwise, the host must be monitoring without controlling the certificate's legitimacy.
If the **Eclipse Mosquitto MQTT** server is configured to use authentication, make your have a read-only account.
```
